# 研究能力考核 PPT -1
# Likely Gains from Market Timing Investment In the Taiwan Equity Market Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
### The excess returns generated by active equity management
can be broken down into excess returns from stock
selection and market timing. The former could be obtained
through information asymmetry or unique analytical techniques,
while the latter is considered very difficult and the predictive
accuracy of the benchmark’s future direction is the key to success.
Nobel Laureate William Sharpe published a landmark study
in 1975 called "Likely Gains from Market Timing". Sharpe
concluded that an investor using a market timing strategy must
be correct 74% of the time in predicting the "long/short direction
of the U.S. stock market each year" in order to beat the
benchmark portfolio, which is a very difficult task. Assuming a
practicable environment for the Taiwan stock market and using
modern Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) methods to simulate
market-timing investments in Taiwan equities, we empirically
conclude that: as long as the accuracy of the rolling prediction
of the stock’s "long/short direction in the coming month" is more
than 65%, the market-timing strategy is expected to outperform
the buy-and-hold strategy. This market-timing strategy could
provide a viable alternative method and reference indicator for
market-timing investments.
Our proposed model-based deep Q-network (DQN) simulates
a cap-weighted, market-timing portfolio with a model accuracy of
75%. The portfolio’s return for the three-year period from 2020
to 2022 is 65.26%. This represents an excess return of 52.41%
compared to the the Taiwan 50 Index’s return of 12.85% for the
same period.
Under the 65% predictive accuracy assumption, the simulated
return of the portfolio is 26.71%, which represents 13.86%
outperformance to the Taiwan 50 Index’s 12.85% return over
the same period. The annualized excess return of this portfolio
is 4.42%, which is insignificant, so we conclude that 65% is a
reasonable minimum predictive threshold for effective markettiming
investments in the Taiwan equity market.


